1. The Asynchronus Nature of Javascript is a pain point because many callbacks and promises often leads to callback issues, wherein code is often nested several layers deep. This in turn makes it hard to read and maintain. As Javascript is Loosely typed, means that variables can be reassigned to different data types, and this often leads to bugs that are difficult to track down. Lastly due to Web platform limitations the capability of javascript is quite limited. THis means that javascript has difficulty in performing operations outside of the browser. 
2.  The creators likely designed Javascript to be more beginner friendly and allow for mistakes, which is likely why loose typing is included. However while this makes it easier for beginners it makes it difficult to eliminate bugs in complex code. 
3.  Compiled languages are languages that are translated into machine code before runtime leading to optimized performance (like C). On the other hand interpreted language is when the program code runs directly during runtime, which makes it slightly slower as it is running on the fly (like Python). Javascript is inherently an interpreted language, meaning, it is slower than most compiled languages. However it allws for Javascript to be more flexible and easier to debug without constant recompilation. 
4. The focus on vanilla javascript is to essentially be able to master the basics of Javascript. I do believe that Professor Powell is starting from Vanilla Javascript so that we are able to learn all the concepts more easily without more complex topics confusing us. The drawbacks of now learning framewosk first is that we may not understand how to work within the constraints of modern development, and we may be doing certain things the longer way.  
5. This lab is related to the project as since the project will use heavy javascript we are learning the basics so that we will be able to participate effectively in the project. By showing us how pipelines work we are able to better understand how we are to merge branches to the main and ensure that we don't break the overall code when doing so. Additionally, learning how to debug JS using debugger and DevTools allows to effectively debug our code and not waste exorbant amounts of time. Furthermore the Diagramming allows us to understand how software engineers utilize flowcharts to be able to create a user experience that is easily understandable and presentable. 
   
